---
Tags: 
Created: 2023-07-04 18:35:52
---
(Links:: [[Linear Algebra]])
1. [x] Find a basis for the Column Space of A.
	- Row reduce $Ax$ and find the vectors which are a linear combination of the others
	- The basis consists of the vectors in the pivot columns
2. [x] Find a basis for the Null Space of A.
	- Solve the equation $Ax=0$. The basis is a set with the vectors from the parametric vector form of the solution set
3. [x] Find the $x$ and $z$ components of the solution of the system by using [[Cramer's Rule, Volume, and Linear Transformations#^df6ce0|Cramer’s rule]].
4. [x] Give the volume of the parallelepiped generated by the columns of the coefficient matrix of the system.
	- $\text{det }A$
5. [x] Find the inverse of a coefficient matrix of a system.
	- Row reduce $[AI]$ to $[IA^{-1}]$
	- $A^{-1}=\frac{1}{\text{det }A}\text{adj }A$
6. [x] Show that $V$ is a subspace of a vector space based on properties of the entires of the vectors.
	- Prove that (1) $V$ contains the $\vec 0$ vector, (2) $V$ is closed under vector addition (3) $V$ is closed under multiplication by scalar
7. [x] Show that $v_1$ is an eigenvector of $A$ and find its corresponding eigenvalue $\lambda_1$
	- Multiply $A$ with $v_1$ to find $\lambda_{1}v_{1}$
8. [x] [[The Characteristic Equation#^26dc57|Determine the remaining eigenvalues of A]] and give a [[Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues#^824f22|basis for every eigenspace]] of $A$.
9. [x] Determine whether $A$ is diagonalizable. If so, give the diagonalization, i.e., an invertible matrix $P$ and a diagonal matrix $D$ such that $A = PDP−1$. If not, explain why $A$ is not diagonalizable.
	- $A$ is diagonalizable iff there are $n$ distinct eigenvalues
	- $D$ contains the eigenvalues along the diagonal (easier to computer powers with)
	- $P$ contains the eigenvectors (belonging to the correct eigenvalues)
10. [x] Use the given basis to produce an orthonormal basis for $\Bbb R^3$.
11. [x] Find the distance between $v_3$ and $\text{Span }\{v_1,v_2\}$.
12. [x] The map $T$ defined by $T ((x1 , x2 )) = ( x1 + x2 , x1 − x2 , 2 )$ is linear.
	- Test if $T(x_1+x_2,y_1+y_2)=T(x_1,y_1)+T(x_2,y_2)$ and $T(cx,cy)=cT(x,y)$
13. [x] Finding the standard matrix $A$ of $T$
14. [x] Determine the LU-factorization of a coefficient matrix
15. [x] Let $x=\begin{bmatrix}1\\0\\2\end{bmatrix}$. Find $[x]_\mathcal{B}$ where $\mathcal{B}$ is the basis made out of the columns of a coefficient matrix $B$
	- $B[x]_\mathcal{B}=x\;\to\;[x]_\mathcal{B}=B^{-1}x$
16. [x] Find an orthogonal basis for $W$
	- Use Gram-Schmidt algorithm
17. [x] Find the best approximation of $y=\begin{bmatrix}1\\2\\3\\4\end{bmatrix}\notin W$ by vectors of $W$
18. [x] Determine if $\{v_{1},v_{2}\}$ is a basis for $\Bbb R^3$
	- $A$ doesn't have a pivot position in every row -> doesn't span $\Bbb R^3$

---
References: