The stages are illustrated in the following case. Amanufacturing company produces a range of modular kitchen units to supply various retail outlets. These outlets sell and fitthe final kitchens for their own customers. The problem isthat one of the major re- tail clients of the kitchen unit manufacturer is becoming dissatisfied with the quality of the delivered kitchen units. There is a problem, which may become a larger problem if nothing is done.
1. **Intelligence**: The decision maker in the kitchen units manufacturing company needs to be aware that a problem exists. This must be a person of sufficient rank to make an effective decision. One way is to wait until a customer complains before taking any decision. Then there is always the danger that notification of the problem will not reach the right level of management before it is too late. A more active form of intelligence gathering is to formally request information from customers on their view of the service that they are getting.
2. **Design**: Once aware of the problem, the decision maker can consider a range of possible options. One is to increase the quality of the product by buying in more expensive fitments. Another is to reschedule production and divert more labour resources to quality control and finishing of the units. Yet another is to do both of these things. The option of deciding to do nothing must always be considered. Each of these will have implications for costs, profits, the timing of production, what action competitors might or might not take, the order book with the client company, and a range of other areas. The decision maker needs to be able to evaluate each of these. Some implications can be assessed quite easily with the aid of computer support, especially if they rely on internally held quantitative information. For example, the use of a spreadsheet model will yield a fast, accurate and effective picture of the internal cost implications of buying more expensive fitments. Other options are more difficult to assess. This is particularly true where external and qualitative information is needed. The response of competitors may require an analysis of the market and the past history of the firms involved.
3. **Choice**: Once the implications of each of the options have been evaluated, the time will come to make a choice as to what to do. This might not be simple if the design stage is incomplete or has not yielded definite results. Rules of thumb and past experience may be used as a guide for choice. In the case of the kitchen manufacturer, two of the options considered were ‘do nothing’ and ‘buy in fitments of higher quality’. The problems involved with choice can be seen by further investigation of the kitchen unit manufacturing organization. The ‘do nothing’ option has implications. There will be the possibility that the retail outlet may take its business elsewhere. On balance, this seems unlikely given the long-established trading relationship and the lack of mature competitors for the specific types of unit favoured by this outlet. But then again the retail outlet is advertising for a new purchasing manager. In contrast, the latter decision to purchase high-quality fitments has definite implications for profit and cost, which are to be balanced against the high probability that this will satisfy the customer complaints. Here the decision maker is required to choose between alternatives that have implications in different areas with different degrees of certainty.
In this organization, the power and responsibility to take the required decision rest with middle to upper management. Other types of decision would be taken at a lower level in the management hierarchy.