Welcome to 2022's Networks and Graphs! The purpose of this course is to learn some basic concepts and topics in an undergraduate-level course in graph theory and their applications in network sciences.

In this course, you will be acquainted with some basic notations in graph theory and complex networks, learn different types of graphs and their properties and become familiar with standard graph algorithms. You will also become familiar with complex networks on the Web and social networks, learn the most important models for complex networks and and learn existing metrics for the analysis of complex networks. 

1. Goals. After taking this course, you should
	- have a basic knowledge of graph theory and social networks,
	- have learned different types of graphs and their properties,
	- be familiar with some standard graph algorithms, 
	- be familiar with complex networks on the Web and social networks,
	- have learned the most important models for complex networks,
	- be able to use existing metrics to analyse complex networks, and
	- be able to model a real-life situation using a graph and/or a complex network.
2. Instructor. Ali Mehrabi (a.mehrabi@vu.nl), Assistant Professor of Computer Science at VU Amsterdam.
3. Lectures. There are two lectures per week, except for week 2. One lecture on Mondays, except for Monday April 10, (at HG-01C Aula) between 13:30 -- 15:15 and one lecture on Tuesdays (at IN-0B60) between 13:30 -- 15:15. (Please see your rooster page for more details.) Your instructor will make the slides of each lecture available on Canvas one day before the start of each lecture. (Follow the link "Pages" on your Canvas page.) In addition, please note the followings.
	- All the lectures are scheduled to be held on campus and there will not be any online lecture (most likely).
	- Since the contents of most of the lectures this year are (slightly) different than those of last year, your instructor is therefore unable to release the video recordings of last year's lectures, except that:
	- The final 1-2 lectures of the course may (or may not) be the same as those of last year. If they happen to be identical, which your instructor will only know once we get close to the end of the course, then your instructor will release the corresponding video recordings from last year with notifications on Canvas!
4. Teaching assistants and exercise sessions. Since the time of our weekly lectures are limited, we do not have enough time to solve and discuss enough examples and exercises during the lectures. In order to practice more exercises, several on-campus exercise sessions have been scheduled for each week. Thus, the purpose of the (additional) weekly exercise sessions is to exclusively solve more examples and exercises related to our regular lectures and thus to help you obtain a better knowledge in the course.
   
   At the beginning of the course, you are will be asked, by an announcement on Canvas, to sign up for one of the exercise lectures, depending on your time availability, on Canvas (and not VUnet) and stay with your selected lecture during the course. The course has six teaching assistants (TAs) and each of them runs 1-2 of the exercise sessions each week. **The contact details of the TAs will be published here on the course syllabus as soon as the students sign up on Canvas for their most suitable session**. In addition, please read the following notes carefully.
	- As mentioned above, the exercise sessions will provide you with a set of valuable complementary examples and exercises and they are as important as the the main lectures on Mondays and Tuesdays.
	- All of the weekly exercise sessions are exactly the same (i.e., the TAs will be solving a same set of exercises each week), except that they are at different times and different locations. 
	- **It is not required to sign up or register for the exercise sessions in VUnet. So, you should ignore the many time slots on your rooster page and try to only attend the exercise lecture for which you have signed up in Canvas.**
	- The exercise sheets of each week will become available at [Pages -> Exercise Sheets](https://canvas.vu.nl/courses/67531/pages/exercise-sheets) on Sunday of its preceding week. Each exercise sheet contains two sets of exercises: in-class set and take-home set. The TAs will be solving the in-class exercises but leave it to yourself to solve the take-home exercises at home at your own time. The take-home exercises serve as a set of additional exercises to think about and solve them yourself at home!
	- Answers to each week exercises (only the in-class exercises) will be published on Canvas (without any notification on Canvas) at [Pages -> Exercise Sheets](https://canvas.vu.nl/courses/67531/pages/exercise-sheets) on Thursday evening of that week.
5. Course contents. The materials of the course, including slides of the lectures and weekly exercises and their solutions can be accessed by following the link [Pages](https://canvas.vu.nl/courses/67531/pages) (or click on Pages) at the left sidebar of the course page. Specifically, 
	- The slides of the course are at [Pages -> Schedule of Lectures and Their Materials](https://canvas.vu.nl/courses/67531/pages/schedule-of-lectures-and-their-materials). 
	- The weekly exercises of the course are at [Pages -> Exercise Sheets](https://canvas.vu.nl/courses/67531/pages/exercise-sheets).
6. Textbooks. We will use parts of the following textbook during the course. (We might be using 1-2 more textbooks later on during the course for a few of the lectures.)
	- [An Introduction to Graph Theory and Complex Networks](https://canvas.vu.nl/courses/67531/files/folder/Textbooks?preview=6106182), written by Maarten van Steen. The contents of the first seven lectures of the course come mostly from this textbook. (See the course schedule for more details.)
7. Prerequisites. Officially speaking, the course is open to all first-year BSc  students in computer science. However, the course assumes some level of maturity in math (discrete math in particular) and a prior knowledge in algorithms and data structures if you wish to join the the course. In particular, you should have a good knowledge in understanding and using mathematical inductions as well as a good knowledge in analysis of algorithms and priority queues, e.g., binary heaps. 
8. Assessment. Your knowledge in the course is assessed by one midterm exam and one final exam. Both exams will be in the form of on-campus digital exams and each of them counts 50% of your final grade. Each of the exams consists of 40 multiple-choice (MC) and True/False questions and between 3-6 open questions. Each MC-True/False question counts 1 point and the sum of the points for the open questions, in each exam, will be 10. Thus, each of the exams counts for 50 points. In addition, please read the following notes carefully. 
	- The dates and the times of the exams are fixed by the education office and your instructor is unable to change them. (See your rooster page for the times and the locations of the exams.)
	- The midterm exam covers the first 6 lectures (lectures 1-6) of the course, including lecture 6 itself. (Lecture 6 will be a very short lecture.)
	- A sample exam for the midterm exam will be posted on Canvas about 10 days before the exam day and you will be notified by an announcement on Canvas. Our meeting on Tuesday April 25, which is one day right before the day of the midterm exam, is devoted to discuss solutions to the sample exam. 
	- The final exam covers all lectures after the midterm exam.
	- Similar to the midterm exam, a sample exam for the final exam will be posted on Canvas and 10 days before the exam day and you will be notified by an announcement on Canvas.  Our meeting on Tuesday May 23, which is our final meeting before the final exam, is devoted to discuss solutions to the sample exam. 
	- Your VU ID is required in order to be admitted to each of the exams.
	- The only things you are permitted to have on the exams is a few pen and/or pencils.   
	- You will be provided with scrap papers at the beginning of the exam.
9. Grading. Your final grade will be simply the sum of your grades for the midterm exam and for the final exam. In addition, there are no minimum grade requirements for any of the two exams in order to pass the course, except that your overall grade, computed as the sum of the two, has to be 55 or more.
10. Transferring grades from last year? Since the course this year has a different assessment structure than that of last year, it is practically impossible to transfer any grades from last year to this year. So, your final grade will be exclusively based on your grades obtained this year (i.e., midterm exam's grade + final exam's grade).
11. Resit. The resit exam covers all lectures of the course and it contains 40 MC and True/False questions and between 3-6 open questions. Each of the MC-True/False questions in the resit counts for 2 points and the sum of the open questions in the resit will be 20. Thus, the resit exam has 100 points and it replaces both the midterm exam and the final exam, with no exception. (See your rooster page for the time and the location of the resit exam.) In addition, please read the following notes carefully.
	- Since you have already been provided with sample exams for both the midterm and the final exam and the resit is simply re-covering everything, you will not be provided with a sample resit exam.
	- Taking the resit requires an official registration through VUnet. If you have failed the course or have received a NVD, then you will be signed up for the course automatically. Otherwise, you have to sign up for the resit yourself if you want to do the resit. If you need more information in this regard, then contact the exam office as your instructor has no more information than this.
	- According to the exam office, if you participate in the resit, then the grade of your resit exam will be your final grade in the course no matter if it is more than your previous grade or less than your previous grade. So, my advise to you is that you should participate in the resit if you are really confident that you will get a higher grade this time.
	- Similar to the midterm and the final exam, your VU ID is required in order to be admitted to the exam.
	- The only things you are permitted to have on the exam is a few pen and/or pencils. 
	- You will be provided with scrap papers at the beginning of the exam.
12. Office hours. The schedule of your instructor has open slots every Friday this quarter and he dedicates them to office hours for this course. However, this is subject to a prior email from you if you want to meet and talk. So, do not shy and just shoot your instructor an email to fix a time to meet at his office.
13. Letter of recommendation. In the past, your instructor has received emails from his former BSc students asking for a letter of recommendation to accompany their applications to, for instance, graduate schools. Since you might be one of such students in future, your instructor has decided to share some information here, as follows.
    
    *Different professors have different policies on whether to accept or decline such requests and whether to write a short and brief letter or a detailed letter. My personal policy on this regard is simple and based on honesty: I prefer to write detailed and meaningful letters of recommendations describing the student's abilities and skills to support his or her applications! In order to be able to write such letters, I would need to know the student and his or her abilities well enough (i.e., more than just knowing his or her final grade in a course) and I believe there are several ways the student can help me to achieve this. As a few examples, joint discussions with me during lecture breaks, showing up during office hours for questions, and working as a TA in a future course offered by me. Such activities make me able to write valuable letters of recommendations to support your future applications!*
14. Communication. We use Canvas for our communications, e.g., announcements, publishing lecture slides, publishing exercise sheets, publishing sample exams, etc. **So, it is important to keep an eye on the Canvas page of the course and check it very regularly! In particular, if you miss anything regarding the course that has been announced or published through Canvas page of the course, then it is your own fault.** 

15. Contact us. If you have any question regarding the course or any of its details, and an answer to your question is not provided on this syllabus page, then please follow the following contact procedure. First, contact your own TA, that is, the TA to whom you have signed up for weekly exercise sessions. (See Section 4 of this course syllabus for the contact details of the TAs.) If you do not receive a reply from your TA or are not satisfied with their reply, then contact Joshua Kenyon at j.m.kenyon@vu.nl. (Joshua Kenyon is an additional staff member who will be helping us to experience a better teaching!) However, if, for some reasons, you need to talk to your instructor only, then feel free to send him an email (a.mehrabi@vu.nl) or read Section 12 of this course syllabus for an in-person meeting at his office.