# Requirements
- An introduction with the goal of the project and its motivation (what are you going to design and what problem are you going to solve)  
- **Related Work**: any project begins with a literature research, to investigate who did something similar before and how, what are the open questions, limitations, etc. You can search on the VU library website www.ubvu.vu.nl, through some e-resources like ACM Digital Library, Google Scholar, Science Direct, etc. You need to provide at least two relevant articles and discuss how your work relates to them. Of course your solution will be a simplified version, but this is not bad. The goal is to teach you how to place your work in a large context.  
- **Concept of operations (product mission statement), system block diagram, user scenarios**. Identify the potential stakeholders, elaborate on how they will use the system by means of a few user scenarios, show how the system will improve the quality of life, describe the system with a simple block diagram.  
- **System requirements**. It is very important to clearly specify in the beginning of the project what your system is going to do and what not. Formulate functional (what the system should do), non-functional requirements (privacy, safety, feel and look, etc), and constraints. You must prioritize your requirements by using for example the MoSCoW approach. You have to model your requirements using UML. You need (1) a use case diagram and (2) an activity diagram or a state transition diagram. You can use the https://www.draw.io/ or Microsoft Visio webtool to draw your diagrams.  
- **System design**. How are you going to realize the goals? Describe the components of your system, the classification algorithm you are going to use, the features, etc.  
- **A project plan with a schedule with a task division and a risk analysis** (who will do what and when, what can go wrong and how are you doing to mitigate these risks?) This has to be made in advance, before starting the project!  
- **Testing**. How did you test your system ? Did you also test unusual situations? Did you evaluate your classification algorithm with a confusion matrix? Was the accuracy as stated in the requirements? If not, then try to explain why. Are there any features that were not tested? Why?  
- **Evaluation**. Here you can reflect on the project. Evaluate your own contribution and your team work. Explain what you did right, what you did wrong, and if you had to do it again, what would you do differently. For example, how realistic was your planning? Did you encounter any unexpected technical problems or take any risks? etc.  
